The Tempest

William Shakespeare

Characters:

Master
Boatswain
Prospero
Miranda
Ariel

Act I

Scene 1: On a ship at sea

Enter a Master and a Boatswain

Master: Boatswain, have you no care for us? We are about to be swallowed by the sea!

Boatswain: I have no care for you, Master. I am only concerned with the safety of the ship.

Master: But the ship is sinking!

Boatswain: That is because you are a fool, Master. You should have listened to me when I told you to stay in port.

Master: I am sorry, Boatswain. I will never disobey you again.

Boatswain: It is too late for apologies, Master. The ship is sinking and we are all going to die.

Master: No! We cannot die! I have a wife and children!

Boatswain: I am sorry, Master. There is nothing I can do.

Master: Farewell, Boatswain. I will never forget you.

Boatswain: Farewell, Master. I hope you find peace in the afterlife.

[The ship sinks]

Act I

Scene 2: On an island

Enter Prospero, Miranda, and Ariel

Prospero: Miranda, my daughter, we have finally reached our destination.

Miranda: Oh, father, I am so happy to be here!

Prospero: I am glad you are happy, Miranda. But we must not forget that we are here for a purpose.

Miranda: What is our purpose, father?

Prospero: We are here to take revenge on those who have wronged us.

Miranda: But who are they, father?

Prospero: They are the ones who stole my dukedom and left me and you to die on this island.

Miranda: But why do you want revenge, father?

Prospero: Because they deserve it. They are evil men and they must be punished.

Miranda: But father, is it not better to forgive them?

Prospero: No, Miranda. Forgiveness is for the weak. We must be strong and take revenge.

Miranda: But father, what if they repent?

Prospero: Then they will be spared. But they must repent sincerely.

Miranda: I understand, father. I will help you take revenge.

Prospero: Good, Miranda. Now, let us go and find our enemies.

[Prospero and Miranda exit]

Ariel: [to the audience] I must warn my master about the dangers of revenge. But he will not listen to me. He is too blinded by his anger. I must find a way to stop him before it is too late.
