The Taming of the Shrew

William Shakespeare

Characters:

Petruchio
Hortensio
Gremio
Baptista

Act I

Scene I: In Padua

Petruchio, Hortensio, and Gremio, three gentlemen of Verona, arrive in Padua. They are discussing the merits of the women of Padua.

Petruchio: I have heard that the women of Padua are the most beautiful in all of Italy.

Hortensio: I have heard that they are also the most shrewish.

Gremio: I am sure that there are some lovely women in Padua, but I would not want to marry one.

Petruchio: Why not?

Gremio: Because they are too difficult to please.

Petruchio: I do not think so. I think I could please any woman, no matter how difficult she is.

Hortensio: You are a fool, Petruchio. No woman can be pleased.

Petruchio: I will prove you wrong, Hortensio. I will marry the most difficult woman in Padua and I will make her love me.

Hortensio: You are mad, Petruchio. No woman can be made to love a man.

Petruchio: We shall see, Hortensio. We shall see.

[Petruchio and Hortensio exit]

Gremio: I pity the poor man who marries that shrew.

[Gremio exits]

Act I

Scene II: In Baptista's house

Baptista Minola, a wealthy Paduan merchant, is discussing his daughters, Katherina and Bianca, with his friend, Gremio.

Baptista: I am worried about my daughters. They are both of marriageable age, but neither of them has found a husband.

Gremio: I am sure they will both find husbands soon, Baptista. There are many young men in Padua who would be happy to marry them.

Baptista: I hope so, Gremio. But I am afraid that Katherina will not be easy to marry off.

Gremio: Why not?

Baptista: Because she is a shrew. No man wants to marry a shrew.

Gremio: I am sure there is a man out there who is just right for her. You must have faith, Baptista.

Baptista: I hope you are right, Gremio. I would hate to see my daughter die an old maid.

Gremio: Do not worry, Baptista. I am sure she will find a husband.

[Gremio exits]

Baptista: I hope so, for Katherina's sake.

[Baptista exits]

Act I

Scene III: In Petruchio's house

Petruchio is discussing his plans to marry Katherina with his friend, Hortensio.

Petruchio: I have decided to marry Katherina.

Hortensio: You are mad, Petruchio. No man in his right mind would marry that shrew.

Petruchio: I am not in my right mind, Hortensio. I am in love.

Hortensio: You are a fool, Petruchio. You will regret this decision.

Petruchio: I will not regret it, Hortensio. I am going to marry Katherina and I am going to make her love me.

Hortensio: You are a madman, Petruchio. But I wish you luck.

[Hortensio exits]

Petruchio: I do not need luck, Hortensio. I have love.

[Petruchio exits]
